The Federal Government has accused the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of desperation, heating up the polity and advocating the destruction of Nigeria. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed made the accusation at a media briefing on Monday in Abuja “As you know, the folks on the other side have been doing everything in recent times to overheat the polity, distort the achievements of our Administration and spread misinformation. “`Yes, it is very cold out there for the hungry and desperate opposition, but every indication is that they don’t even want to wait for the 2023 elections before testing their popularity or acceptability at the polls. “How else does one explain their court case seeking the declaration of our convention as illegal? “How do you explain their threat of another #EndSars that pushed Nigeria to the brink? “How do you explain their glaring misinformation regarding the nation’s state of affairs,” he queried. The minister noted that there was nothing wrong in having a fiery and viable opposition in a democracy, but not a type that would destroy the country. He recalled that in their time as opposition party they never for once advocated the destruction of the country to have their way. “Not once did we seek to gain power via a desperate court action because if you destroy the country you are seeking to govern, what country will you govern? Must you cut your nose to spite your face? Mohammed said that in PDP’s recent act of desperation, the party sought to erase seven years of unprecedented achievements by the President Muhammadu Buhari’s Administration. He cautioned Nigerians against the antics of the opposition which he alleged, ruined the nation in its 16-year rule and turned around to pose as its rescuer. “In the most egregious show of shamelessness and a blatant refusal to be remorseful, they even had the audacity to express righteous indignation that the damage they inflicted on the country in their 16 years of misrule has not been totally undone in just seven years. “In other words, those who brought the country to its knees are now accusing those working hard to repair things of non-performance. “They said they are ready to rescue Nigeria. Pray, where do kidnappers rescue their victims? “These same guys who kidnapped the fortunes of their country are suddenly posing as rescuers. CAVEAT EMPTOR. Buyers beware! NIGERIANS BEWARE! The minister said the government was aware of the challenges facing the country in the areas of economy, security, power, but they had risen stoutly to the challenges. He said government was judiciously utilising the scarce resources available and making an impact. Mohammed hailed Nigerians for their sacrifices and reassured that “today’s pains won’t endure, but the new Nigeria that will emerge will surely do!’’ (NAN)