Kano State Agro-Pastoral Development Project (KSADP) has awarded a N291.3 million contract to consultancy firms to design and supervise some projects in Kano State. This is contained in a statement issued by the Project Communication Specialist, Ameen Yassar, on Friday in Kano. Giving a breakdown of the contracts, Yassar said that Hamjik Agric Plus got N120.6 million for design and supervision services for the development of large scale commercial fodders. The company also got N108.4 million to develop 1,950 kilometres of major and minor stock routes. The statement further stated that Akam Consultant Ltd. got N29.8 million for the provision of assorted infrastructure at Dawanau International Grains Market. It added that Emwai Consult Ltd. received N22.9 million to improve five cattle markets, while Kristal Engineering Associates Ltd. got N9.7 million to develop a milk storage facility. The State Project Coordinator of KSADP, Ibrahim Muhammad, reportedly signed the contracts on behalf of the State Government. He was quoted to have described the contracts as “part of KSADP’s commitment to begin the execution of major civil works in the state this year. “The consultants were selected based on competence to provide complete technical tasks, comprising survey and design services. “They were also to provide quality management services through monitoring and evaluation of work executed by contractors to ensure that they met the required standards. “Although the design and supervision consultancies are distinct, they are interrelated because they are all geared towards bringing about change in agro-pastoralism in Kano state,” Muhammad added. In a remark, Dr. Junaidu Muhammad, the Managing Director, Kano State Agricultural and Rural Development Authority, (the executing agency of KSADP), expressed delight that KSADP’s activities had gathered momentum. He urged the consultants to justify the confidence reposed in them by providing excellent services that would lead to achieving the organisation’s objectives. (NAN)