The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), on Monday began enforcement of no vaccination no entry into the Area 11 Garki Secretariat. The implementation team and security men manned the entrance of the secretariat as early as early as 7 a.m, according to the News Agency Of Nigeria (NAN). NAN Correspondent who monitored the enforcement exercise observed that many staff and visitors were being turned bacl. Some were seen at the entrance gates grumbling and begging to gain access. Addressing journalists, Mr. Ikharo Attah, Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement to the FCT Minister, said that the enforcement would be sustained to ensure maximum compliance. He said there was no going back on enforcement of the directive, adding that pictures of vaccination cards on phones and photocopies would not be accepted. Attah said that enforcement team had been deployed at the premises of FCTA and secretariats and departments to monitor compliance. “We will be following up seriously on this and we have also warned people not to snap their card on the phone as we want to see the original card, don’t show us vaccination card
on phone. “We will be asking for identity cards and we would match the cards with your COVID-19 vaccination card so that you don’t bring someone else’s card as your own.” NAN reports that the enforcement team went round some of the agencies of FCTA which includes, the Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB), Social Development Secretariat and FCT Universal Basic Education Board. Others are FCT Water Board, Secondary Education Board, FCT Primary Health Care Board, Public Health Department, Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency (RUWASA) and FCT Area Council Staff Pension Board. The FCTA, on Tuesday January 11 said it would bar workers from accessing their offices as from January 17 if they are unable to show proof of their vaccination against COVID-19. The Senior Special Assistant to FCT Minister on Media and Strategic Communication, Malam Abubakar Sani, announced this in a statement. Sani explained that the warning is contained in a circular signed by the FCTA Permanent Secretary, Mr Olusade Adesola. (NAN)