Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi on Tuesday approved the immediate implementation of the N30,000 new national minimum wage for the state workforce, with partial consequential adjustment. The Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mrs. Folashade Arike-Ayoade, disclosed this after an extensive meeting with the organised labour in Lokoja. Arike-Ayoade explained that the delay in the new wage implementation was due to the inability of the constituted working Committee to meet regularly, mostly due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The SSG, however, commended the organised labour for their understanding and patience so far, which she noted had resulted into the approval of its implementation. Also speaking, the Deputy Governor, Chief Edward Onoja, was full of praise and appreciation to the organised labour for their commitment at reaching the agreement amicably, without resorting to a strike action. “Governor Yahaya Bello is passionate about the welfare of civil servants and would continue to give priority attention to its workforce,” Onoja asserted. The Head of the State Civil Service, Mrs. Hannah Odiyo, said, ”with the singing of the agreement on the new national minimum wage, the committee had completed its work peacefully, without recourse to strike action.” Responding, the Chairman, Nigeria Labour Congress, Mr. Onuh Edoka, commended Bello for, ” taking the bull by the horns in signing the new minimum wage. “The earlier notice of strike served on the state government had been suspended with immediate effect considering this giant stride taken by government. “We indeed commend the state government for signing the agreement with the mandate of immediate implementation to give civil servants in the state a new lease of life. “Consequently, we assure you of civil servants’ commitment to effective productivity in all sectors of the economy,” the chairman affirmed. The agreement also covers state workforce as well as the local government workforce. Present at the signing of the agreement were state Chairman of the Trade Union Congress, Mr. Ranti Ojo, state Chairman NUJ, Mr. Adeiza Momoh-jimoh, and Chairman, NULGE, Tade Adeyemi, among others. (NAN)