Mrs. Elizabeth Akinlade, the new Federal Road Safety Commission’s (FRSC) Sector Commander in Cross River has warned Nigerians against selling their vehicles with number plates. Akinlade gave the warning when she paid a courtesy visit to the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), Cross River Council in Calabar. The sector commander said the warning became necessary to protect unsuspecting members of the public against selling their vehicles to people of questionable character. According to her, the original owner of the vehicle will be held responsible if the vehicle is used to perpetuate a crime after it had been sold. She said the corps had a data bank of the original owners of all vehicles in the country, adding that when a car is sold a new buyer ought to do change of ownership. “Don’t sell your vehicle with the plate number because in our data bank, the name of the original owner of the vehicle including his address is stored. “If the vehicle is used to carryout a crime, with the information in our data bank, the original owner may be arrested even if he knows nothing about the crime but sold the car with the plate number. “One of our strategic goals is to have a robust data-bank because without data you may not be able to do much,” she said. Akinlade said the main goal of the corps in Cross River in 2022 would be to reduce road crashes by 15 per cent, adding that it could only be possible with a cordial relationship with the media. “We have lost a lot of people especially breadwinners, some of whom have been rendered incapacitated, that is why we continue to urge the media to help us push the message of defensive driving to the public,” she said. In his remarks, Mr. Victor Udu, Chairman of the NUJ, Cross River Council, thanked the sector commander for her visit, and urged the command to make the process of getting vehicle licence easy. He, however, appealed to members of the public to ensure that their papers were up-to-date and their vehicles in good condition, especially their tyres, side mirrors, rear glasses to minimise altercations with FRSC officials. “If we do what the law says, we will have less frictions with FRSC and whenever they stop you for breaking the law, be gentle enough to appeal to them and not claim right,” he said. Akinlade took over from Mr. Ocheja Ameh at the the Cross River Command. (NAN)