Justice Bolanle Okikiolu-Ighile of Lagos High Court said on Friday that Peter Nielsen, a Dane had always abused hiis murdered wife, Zainab Nielson. The Dane was charged with the death of his wife and singer, Zainab, and their three-year-old daughter, Petra. She convicted Nielsen on two counts of murder brought against him by Lagos State Government for killing zainab and Petra. The judge sentenced Nielsen to death by hanging on both counts. Lagos State Government accused him of smothering Zainab and Petra to death at 3.45a.m. at No. 4, Flat 17, Bella Vista Tower, Banana Island, Ikoyi. Nielsen was arraigned on June 13, 2018. He pleaded not guilty to the two-count charge of murder contrary to Section 223 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. In a five-hour judgment, Okikiolu-Ighile, held that oral and documentary evidence before the court showed that prosecution proved beyond reasonable doubt that Nielsen smothered his wife and daughter. “This is one of the cases of domestic violence. “The DNA analysis of nail scraping brought out the assailant of Zainab. “Zainab tried so much to defend herself. The evidence shows that Peter Nielsen killed his wife and daughter. “There is evidence before the court that there is a fight between the defendant and his wife,” the judge held. She held that Prosecution Witnesses (PW5 and PW6) testified that they heard Zainab calling Mimi (one the girls living with the couple) for help and they heard Zainab telling the defendant to check her phone but he kept hitting her head. “The act of the defendant shows that he suffocated his wife and daughter. “Peter has always domestically abused his wife which was shown in the police extract from Ikoyi Police Station. “She didn’t know that her marriage to the defendant was void abi nitio because Peter was already married in Denmark. “You are found guilty of murder of Zainab and Petra. I hereby pronounce that you Peter Nielsen be hanged by the neck till death. May God have mercy on you,” she held. (NAN) President of the Senate Ahmad Lawan says his 2023 presidential ambition was conceived to enable him change the lives of Nigerians for the better. Lawan said this on Friday when he paid a courtesy call on Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River in Calabar as part of his political tour to meet with delegates of the All Progressive Congress (APC). The Senate President said that the welfare and security of Nigerians was top most priority on his agenda to change the fortunes of the country if given the presidential ticket. Lawan said that if voted into office as president, he would re-define the economy of the country from the over dependency on oil and place premium on agriculture. He said that Nigeria needs a personality that has the capacity, knowledge and experience needed to govern the country. He observed that although the governor of Cross River was also running for the presidential race, it was important for them to work as brothers. “I am running for the presidency of the country to help me change the lives of the people for good. “As politicians, we are brothers and sisters; that the governor of Cross River is also running for the office of the president does not make us enemies. “I wish to ask the governor of Cross River to give me the delegates from his state during the primaries,” he said. Responding, Ayade said that Lawan has been a great partner in the growth and development of the country. He noted that the Senate President has the capacity to handle cases of Boko haram, banditry and the Niger Delta challenges. “I am also going to work for you if you get the party’s ticket. You have always stood by us as a state,” he said. (NAN)