The River State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has advised delegates of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), against voting for any aspirant known for cross carpeting from one party to another for vaulting ambition. Wike gave the advice on Wednesday in Lokoja when he met with Kogi PDP delegates to seek for votes to fly the flag of the party in the 2023 Presidential election. He cast aspersions at those that have turned their back against the PDP after benefitting much from the party. The PDP presidential hopeful promised that he would not defect to another party if he failed in his bid to pick the party presidential ticket. “I hate ingrates in my life; we have some people who are busy jumping from one party to another just because they want to win election. ”As for me, if you don’t vote for me in our party primary, I will still remain a member of the PDP. I have benefited from this party, and so I have no excuse to give, for defecting to another party,” Wike said. According to him, Nigerians need a fearless and courageous man like him that can speak the truth to the power without fear or favour. He lamented on what he described as poor state of Kogi State, and vowed to put everything into the game for the opposition party to take over the state come 2023. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the PDP presidential primary is billed for May 28, 2022 in Abuja. (NAN) Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, and presidential aspirant on the platform of the All progressives Congress (APC), says a better Nigeria is in sight with the collective efforts of Nigerians. Osinbajo disclosed this on Wednesday in an interview with journalists, shortly after he held a closed door meeting with delegates of the party in Taraba State, ahead of the party primaries. The aspirant, who was visibly overwhelmed with joy due to the warm reception accorded him and his team in the state, noted that he was offering himself for a better future for the country. “You can see the cheerful faces as they welcome me, I am sure it will continue in unity as we go on to try to find solutions to the country’s challenges,” he said. Mr. Aaron Artimas, the party’s Publicity secretary in the state, told journalists after the meeting, that Osinbajo sought delegates’ support to emerge as the party’s presidential flag bearer. Artimas said Osinbajo was qualified to “change the country’s situation for good, going by his profile and doggedness for governance”.
“The VP’s visit today is to seek our party delegates’ support to emerge as the presidential flag bearer in the 2023 General Elections.
“His profile and doggedness for governance has convinced us that he is qualified and can transform Nigeria,” he said. (NAN)