Former Governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu, on Thursday night visited Kano State to seek the support of delegates ahead of the presidential primary of the All People’s Congress (APC). Tinubu met with APC leaders and delegates at the Coronation Hall, Government House, Kano. Tinubu is one of the APC’s presidential aspirants seeking the party’s ticket for the 2023 presidential election. His visit came days after two presidential aspirants Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo and former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amechi visited the state to also woo the delegates. While canvassing for votes of the delegates, the former Lagos state governor urged them not to make a mistake of voting any body other than him. “I hereby appeal to you to support my presidential ambition by voting for me to clinch the party’s ticket at the forthcoming primary election. “Today is the day I have come to ask for your support to be president of Nigeria. You can put me there with your votes. “I believe in myself, I’m smart,  intelligent and courageous, don’t make mistake, choose wisely, choose me, I beg you and you will never regret supporting me,” he said. The APC chieftain said he would tackle insecurity, revamp the economy, provide good roads to enable farmers to bring their produce to market. Tinubu further said that he would develop and make the agricultural sector more lucrative, the country needs the formation of a commodity exchange mechanism. “Commodity exchange is to guarantee to the farmers that there is a market for all the produce that is coming,” he said.
The National leader of APC also commended Gov. Ganduje for his strides in developing the state. On his part, Governor Abdullahi Ganduje, said it was pay-back time, revealing that Tinubu worked assiduously for the growth of the APC. Ganduje said that Nigerians were yearning for a candidate who really understands the challenges of the nation and who is experienced enough to reposition the country. Earlier , the party chairman, Alhaji Abdullahi Abbas, commended Tinubu for the role he played in developing Lagos and urged him to replicate the same in the country. NAN reports that the National leader of APC, who inspected and inaugurated some projects, had earlier visited elder state man, Alhaji Aminu Dantata and Alhaji Yusuf Ali. (NAN) Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State has described the President of the Senate, Mr. Ahmed Lawan, as a solid and dependable person. Masari made this known during a meeting with stakeholders and All Progressives Congress (APC) party delegates with Lawal in Katsina on Thursday. Lawan was in Katsina to solicit support of APC delegates during the party’s primaries slated for Abuja. Masari said,  “We are together with Ahmed Lawal in the House of Representatives from1999 to 2007, where I was the Speaker of the House. “From then, is now 23 years that I knew him. We have been relating very fine, I can tell you, he is straightforward, solid and dependable. “The people of Katsina state will do what is expected.” Earlier, the presidential aspirant told the delegates that apart from Yobe, Katsina is his second home. Lawan said that Masari was his leader and mentor when they were in the House of Representatives. “I am only here to show my face and greet you people, there is no need for me to campaign in my place,” he added. Lawan pledged that, if elected as President of Federal Republic of Nigeria, he will carry everybody along, revisit the issue of insecurity in the country and ensure that Boko Haram and insurgency is brought to an end. He also promised that every Nigerian child, whether from poor or rich background, would get quality education and access to good medical care. Lawal pledged to ensure that youths were gainfully employed, stressing that unemployment is one the causes of the insecurity bedevilling the country. (NAN)