A Presidential Aspirant on the platform of the APC, Hon. Rotimi Amaechi has promised to give women equal opportunities as men in his administration, if elected president come 2023. Amaechi, in a statement made the pledge during his consultation visits to Benue, Gombe, and Katsina States. He said he didn’t believe in the 35 per cent affirmative action for women in politics because women were more competent and intelligent than men. Amaechi, however, said that women delegates should get ready to vote him into power after he gets the party ticket as his administration would give women equal rights. “When we win, women will have equal opportunities as the men; there will not be 35 per cent affirmative action for women. No, you are more intelligent than the men. ”Ask parents, if you have a boy and a girl, the girl develops faster than the boy and is more intelligent, eventually, the boy becomes the Oga of the house by tradition, not because he is more brilliant. “Amina Mohammed was not selected because she was a woman, she earned it. Women are more qualified than men, whether you believe it or not, in our government, we will include women, just go and vote. “We will give you opportunities like every other person in Nigeria to serve the country because you are equally qualified. So, there will be equal opportunities for both genders,” Amaechi said. Speaking to the youths, he urged them to join a party and be more active at the party level, stating that he became a Speaker at the age of 34years. “I became a Speaker at the age of 34years, then there was no “Not too Young to Run Bill,” and I was given the opportunity, if youths are more committed at the party level, they will get more opportunities to serve,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that various NGOs and women groups had protested over denying women 35 per cent affirmative action in party administration, leadership, and specific seats for women in the National Assembly. (NAN) Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers paid a visit to former president Olusegun Obasanjo in Abeokuta on Monday to consult and solicit his support for his presidential ambition in 2023. He was accompanied on the visit by Gov. Seyi Makinde of Oyo State and Gov. Samuel Ortom of Benue. Wike told journalists after a closed-door meeting with Obasanjo that he visited to learn from the wealth of experience of the former president. The Rivers governor, a presidential aspirant in the 2023 general elections on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said it was important to consult a leader and someone who had presided over the affairs of the country in the past. “We have come to consult our leader; to consult somebody who has presided over the affairs of this country, not just as a president, but also as a former military Head of State. “The kind of experience he had and the passion he has for this country coupled with his continuous preaching for unity and peace is something to be emulated. “This country requires somebody who has the courage; somebody who can take a firm decision and somebody who wants to unite Nigerians and that is what we think that we should do,’’ he said. Wike added that if elected as the president of Nigeria in 2023, he would further unite Nigerians and also take the issue of security seriously. Earlier, Obasanjo noted that all hands must be on deck to fix the challenges facing the country, saying that no one individual could do it alone. The former president explained that the issues Wike raised were the issues that were dear to his heart for the unity and stability of Nigeria. He stated that Nigeria remained a complex country, but not a difficult country. “If we are sincere and fair to ourselves, it is not a difficult country,’’ Obasanjo stressed. “I ceased to be a partisan politician; I don’t belong to any political party, but if politics is the welfare of the people, I cannot cease to be a politician because I must always seek the welfare of the people. “As I often said, no one individual can say yes I can do it because the situation Nigeria is in today, we need all hands, all Nigerian hands on deck to restore Nigeria and that is what Gov. Wike is saying to me. “Courage, he doesn’t lack it; and if you have courage and you have the conviction to speak your mind, you will be an example of a saying in this part of the world that `a person who speaks the truth all the time may not even get a mat spread for him’. “I wish Gov. Wike well,” Obasanjo said. (NAN)