The National Working Committee (NWC) of the PDP has adjusted the dates for the primaries ahead of the 2023 general elections. The Lagos State Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr Hakeem Amode, disclosed this in a statement in Lagos. According to him, the new date of the party’s primary elections for the State Houses of Assembly and the House of Representatives seats is now May 22. Meanwhile, the primary for the Senate remained May 23. He urged the party members and members of the public to take note of the new dates. The party had, before the latest adjustment, put its House of Assembly primary for May 21 while the House of Representatives was fixed for May 22. Meanwhile, the earlier adjusted dates of the primaries for the senate and governorship earlier scheduled for May 23 and May 26 were not tampered with in the new adjustment. The party’s presidential primary has been fixed for May 28 and May 29. (NAN) Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Friday met with delegates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Imo behind closed doors,  as part of consultations for his 2023 presidential bid. In an interview with newsmen in Owerri shortly after the meeting, the vice president said the 2023 general elections was crucial to the future of the country. The vice president said he had a fruitful deliberation with the delegates on some critical issues that concerned the economy and the future of the country. “We have had a very engaging time with delegates from Imo state. “We talked about a wide range of issues from economy to security to education, and what we need to do as well as some of the current challenges and how we need to deal with some of these challenges. “As you know, there’s a lot that needs to be done in the areas of economy and security. And a lot has been done which I can’t go into details,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the vice president was earlier received by Gov. Hope Uzodimma at the Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport. Osinbajo also paid a courtesy visit on the Chairman, Imo Council of Traditional Rulers, Eze Emmanuel Okeke. Speaking on the APC  primaries slated for May 26, an aspirant vying for the Okigwe South Federal Constituency seat, Mrs Chiwendu Amba Edomobi, expressed confidence that the party would conduct credible primaries in the state. “We will work with whoever emerges as our  party’s flag bearer because the most important thing in this election is the electorate. “The aim is to  ensure that they benefit from the government and dividend of democracy,” Edomobi said in an interview. (NAN)