The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), has urged the Federal Government to pay marketers their bridging claims to enable them to begin lifting petroleum products from the depots.. The IPMAN Public Relations Officer, Alhaji Yakubu Suleiman said this in a telephone interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Tuesday. NAN reports that IPMAN claims the Federal Government owes its members N500 billion as bridging claims also known as transportation claims. Suleiman also urged the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to convert the special allocation of products meant for cargo to IPMAN in order to quickly address the current shortage of fuel in the country. “We are calling on the Nigeria downstream and mainstream regulatory authorities to try and pay our marketers their bridging claims as from today. “This is important, so that as soon as we get the payment, we can give directives to marketers to start loading their trucks, so that they can start transporting petroleum products. “We are calling on the authorities and the NNPC to quickly allocate a certain cargo of AGO for IPMAN to distribute it to their members to enable them fuel their trucks for accelerated bridging loading. “There is no money to buy the product until the Federal Government pays our claims and assist in allocating a cargo of AGO to us to hasten loading from various loading deports,” Suleiman said. Reacting to the claims by IPMAN, an official of the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) who spoke under condition of anonymity said the Federal Government had been paying the marketers, though in batches. According to the official, IPMAN is one of our key stakeholders and we have a committee looking into issues bothering the association. IPMAN had in a news conference held recently urged Nigerians to prepare for the worse fuel crisis unless the Federal Government prevails on NMDPRA to pay its members their outstanding bridging claims amounting to N500 billion. Most filling stations in Abuja were shut down at the weekend following scarcity of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), popularly known as petrol, thereby, resulting to long queues. The Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPC Ltd.), however, attributed the sudden appearance of fuel queues in parts of Abuja to low load-outs at depots. A statement by Garba Muhammad, the Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Department, NNPC had on Monday, said this usually happened during long public holidays (Sallah celebrations). Muhammad said another contributing factor to the sudden appearances of queues was the increased fuel purchases which were also common with returning residents of the FCT from the public holidays. (NAN) The Senate has amended the Electoral Act 2022, to allow ‘statutory delegates’ to participate and vote in political parties’ conventions, congresses and meetings. This followed the passage of the amendment bill on the act at the Committee of the Whole on Tuesday in Abuja. The bill was sponsored by Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege. Presenting the bill, Omo-Agege said that it sought to amend the provision of Section 84(8) of the Electoral Act. According to him, the provisions of the section does not provide for the participation of what is generally known as ‘statutory delegates’ in the conventions, congresses or meetings of political parties. “The extant section only clearly provides for the participation of elected delegates in the conventions, congresses or meetings of political parties held to nominate candidates of political parties. “This is an unintended error, and we can only correct it with this amendment now before us,” he said. He named that the statutory delegates to include the President, Vice President, members of the National Assembly, governors and their deputies. He said that others were lawmakers at the State Houses of Assembly, Chairmen of local councils, councilors and members of National Working Committees of political parties among others. In his remarks, President of the Senate Ahmad Lawan said that the amendment became imperative in view of the deficiency created by the provision of Section 84(8) of the Extant Act. “The amended Electoral Act of 2022 that we passed this year has a deficiency that was never intended and that deficiency will deny all statutory delegates in all political parties from participation in congresses and conventions. “And, therefore, such a major and unintended clause has to be amended before the party primaries starts in the next eight days. This is an emergency legislation, so to speak. “Our expectation is that the National Assembly – the two chambers – would finish with the processing of the amendment of this bill, between today (in the Senate) and tomorrow (Wednesday) in the House of Representatives and then the Executive will do the assent,” he said. He added, “That is so important to enable every statutory delegate to participate in the party primaries right from the beginning that will start on the May 18. “So, this is an emergency effort to ensure that nobody is denied his or her rightful opportunity as a delegate especially the statutory delegates, and these are those who are elected. “These are the President, Vice President, members of the National Assembly, Governors, members of the State Houses of Assembly, Chairmen of Council and their Councilors, National Working Committee members of all the political parties and so on. “This is a fundamental effort to ensure that we address this within the week, so that by next week, the Electoral Act 2022 (amended version), will be very salutary for us to start our party primaries.” (NAN)