President of the Senate Ahmad Lawan says his 2023 presidential ambition was conceived to enable him change the lives of Nigerians for the better. Lawan said this on Friday when he paid a courtesy call on Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River in Calabar as part of his political tour to meet with delegates of the All Progressive Congress (APC). The Senate President said that the welfare and security of Nigerians was top most priority on his agenda to change the fortunes of the country if given the presidential ticket. Lawan said that if voted into office as president, he would re-define the economy of the country from the over dependency on oil and place premium on agriculture. He said that Nigeria needs a personality that has the capacity, knowledge and experience needed to govern the country. He observed that although the governor of Cross River was also running for the presidential race, it was important for them to work as brothers. “I am running for the presidency of the country to help me change the lives of the people for good. “As politicians, we are brothers and sisters; that the governor of Cross River is also running for the office of the president does not make us enemies. “I wish to ask the governor of Cross River to give me the delegates from his state during the primaries,” he said. Responding, Ayade said that Lawan has been a great partner in the growth and development of the country. He noted that the Senate President has the capacity to handle cases of Boko haram, banditry and the Niger Delta challenges. “I am also going to work for you if you get the party’s ticket. You have always stood by us as a state,” he said. (NAN) The National Working Committee (NWC) of the PDP has adjusted the dates for the primaries ahead of the 2023 general elections. The Lagos State Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr Hakeem Amode, disclosed this in a statement in Lagos. According to him, the new date of the party’s primary elections for the State Houses of Assembly and the House of Representatives seats is now May 22. Meanwhile, the primary for the Senate remained May 23. He urged the party members and members of the public to take note of the new dates. The party had, before the latest adjustment, put its House of Assembly primary for May 21 while the House of Representatives was fixed for May 22. Meanwhile, the earlier adjusted dates of the primaries for the senate and governorship earlier scheduled for May 23 and May 26 were not tampered with in the new adjustment. The party’s presidential primary has been fixed for May 28 and May 29. (NAN)